---
layout: post
title: 'COVID-19 Connection'
---

  I have happened to see some 2020 COVID-19 Youtube videos by women titled “How to look good in your Zoom meetings” or something along those lines. Something that stuck out to me, since I was writing this paper, was the suggestion by white women (today’s Shirleys?) to wear a light or neutral colored shirt, because wearing a dark shirt will cause the video to highly overexpose your face and make your face shine like a light bulb.  I assume that few white viewers will think to themselves about how that advice would not work for people who do not have such white skin.  One Canadian Youtuber (See Figure B) made it clear that her suggestion was for “marshmallows” like herself, which was important to clarify, and not terribly difficult. The thing is, perhaps technology “shouldn’t” have anything to do with race - and that makes sense, certainly. But regardless, humans create and use technology, and that means knowing more about it than what it means for you specifically because you know you aren’t the only type of person. To only understand photo technology for your white face is not useful, if not only because it means you have an extremely limited understanding of how photography works. Of course, it also means you can’t take photos of people different than yourself.  
  Zoom posted something interesting on their own blog about the subject of what light bulbs to use: “A light with a high color rendering index (CRI) is able to show the true colors of every object in a room. Low CRI lights may be advantageous for people with faces that have imperfections on the skin, since it makes them easier to mask. High CRI lights will work well for people with darker skin tones, since it helps reveal the nuances in pigment that would otherwise have been glossed over with a simpler incandescent bulb. The kind of light bulb you choose affects how much of your true beauty shines in more ways than you think, doesn’t it?” (Zoom Blog).  This was the one mention I could find by the company Zoom about lighting. It sounded a little unnatural – I would be shocked to find someone out there who would change their light bulbs for a video conference.  This makes sense from a filmography company, but not a video conference company, so it leaves me confused. 


{% include image.html url="http://www.gratisography.com" image="projects/proj-5/gun-pants.jpg" %}
