---
layout: post
title: 'Project Three'
---

However, unless it was in order to surveil black folks, photo technology in the mid-20th century was hardwired to NOT work for dark skin color, because the light range was that narrow.  The default setting with the narrow light range was designed for a person with the skin color of Polaroid’s first model “Shirley,” who was a white woman in the 50s.  Her skin tone, Lorna Roth says, has “been the recognized skin ideal standard for most North American analogue photo labs since the early part of the twentieth century and they continue to function as the dominant norm” (Looking at Shirley).  Roth discusses the origin of the choice of Shirley, who was the industry standard in North American photo labs that were owned by largely men.  She brings up an interesting point about Shirley being a woman - a choice made by the male owners, no doubt.  The task Shirley was used for could have easily been done by a male model, and it might have even have addressed the contrast issue earlier: “Alone or in groups, men wearing coloured shirts with similar skin-tone ranges and hair colours to those of female Shirleys could have worked as effectively as a reference standard—especially if they had had beards or moustaches. These actually might have provided technicians with the practice to deal more effectively with the contrast issue.”  

Had Shirley been a man with a little beard scruff, the exposure settings might have been less oversimplified for her smooth consistent “normal” face (See Figure A) - yet Roth found few uses of men for reference modeling.  When you think about it, how much sense does it make to base everything around “beautiful” “thin, able-bodied” “white” “eyebrowed” “Western European” women when we know full well that she simply isn’t the majority of the people you see on a daily basis? It is what we always do, that is the entire essence of our modeling industry… But say, as a photographer making money, you’d desire the ability to photograph a majority of people, not only this fairly homogenous group of “beautiful” specifically-white women.  Roth says that while all this technology was being produced, at the same time "emerged a masculinist collection of sexy female imagery to tinker with, pin up on lab walls, and use in the colour balancing process” which isn’t hard to visualize with all of her evidence.  Sometimes, we give history the benefit of the doubt - maybe it wasn’t intentional. But often there was a creepy room of powerful men laughing to each other, and Roth bringing this imagery up makes it seem less “unintentional.”  It isn’t rocket science - it wasn’t that contrast and exposure was just mystifying in the 50s - they knew what they were doing. One photographer as quoted by Benjamin said, “It turns out, film stock’s failures to capture dark skin aren’t a technical issue, they’re a choice” (104). 

An extremely saddening improvement came eventually: “It was only when Kodak's two biggest clients – the confectionary and furniture industries – complained that dark chocolate and dark furniture were losing out that it came up with a solution” (The Guardian).  In the 1980s, a new film stock was created to address the past decades’ issues with underexposure, but it wasn’t provided for humans - it was released for taking photos of “a dark horse in low light” which has unsettling implications.  Not only did Kodak decide to not correct their errors openly, they chose to reference their correction to animals and furniture instead of people.  Benjamin discusses how these things - animals, chocolate, furniture - were what made companies finally make changes, having ignored complaints by black parents that their children’s school picture day photos were poor quality (105).  Time and again, technology companies reminded black people that they were not a demographic they cared to serve. 


{% include image.html url="http://www.gratisography.com" image="projects/proj-3/clothes.jpg" %}
